## Methods & Materials 

### Genome Sequencing & Flowcytometry

ALAM – Rohu blood collection 

#### Flow cytometry 

The genome size of *Labeo rohita* was estimated for five samples via flow cytometry using trout erythrocyte nuclei (TENs; https://www.biosure.com/tens.html) as a standard (genome size=6.5pg).
For each sample, nuclei were stabilized in 200 ul of LB01-propidium iodide (PI) buffer as per (Pellicer & Leitch, 2014), and two drops of TENs standard were used per 50ul of fish blood.
Each sample was measured twice, totaling 10 runs overall. 
Only measurements with greater than 5,000 nuclei and a coefficient of variation (CV) of less than 3% were retained (Pellicer & Leitch, 2014).

#### Illumina short-read sequencing

A total of 2 µg of extracted genomic DNA was used for DNA-Seq library preparation using Illumina TruSeq DNA PCR-free Library Prep Kit (Illumina, San Diego, CA, USA). 
The final DNA-Seq library with the insert size range of 350 bp to 450 bp was submitted to Novogene company (www.en.novogene.com) for total of 2 lanes of PE150 Illumina HiSeq X-Ten (Illumina, San Diego, CA, USA) sequencing.

#### Oxford Nanopore sequencing

For each Nanopore sequencing run, 2 to 2.5 µg of genomic DNA was used in the library preparation with Nanopore Genomic DNA Ligation Sequencing Kit SQK-LSK 109 (Oxford Nanopore Technologies, Oxford, UK).
The final library (about 700 to 750 ng) was loaded on a Nanopore Flow Cell R9.4.1 (Oxford Nanopore Technologies, Oxford, UK) and sequenced on GridION sequencer (Oxford Nanopore Technologies, Oxford, UK) for 48 hours. 
A total of 10 flow cell runs were conducted for the genome assembly.

#### Hi-C sequencing

One hundred µl of fish blood was subjected to the Hi-C library preparation using the Proximo Hi-C Animal Kit (Phase Genomics, Seattle, WA, USA). 
The final DNA-Seq library was submitted to Novogene company (www.en.novogene.com) for 1 lane of PE150 Illumina HiSeq X-Ten (Illumina, San Diego, CA, USA) sequencing run.

#### Bionano 

### Assembly & Annotation 

Jellyfish (v2.2.10) [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btr011] and GenomeScope (v1.0) [@pcmid:PMC5870704] estimated the genome size using the Illumina paried reads digested into 50-mers. 

Nanopore data was filtered to remove the control lambda-phage and sequences shorter the 1000 bases using the nanopack tool suite (v1.0.1) [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/bty149]. 
The filtered data was assembled into contigs using wtdbg2 (v2.4) [@doi:10.1038/s41592-019-0669-3]. 
The contigs were polished using the two iterations of racon (v1.4.0) [@doi:10.1101/gr.214270.116] with minimap2 (v2.17) (@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/bty191) mapping the nanopore reads. 
The contigs were further polished using pilon (v1.23) [@doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0112963] with bwa (v0.7.10) [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btp324] mapping the Illumina paired reads. 
The contigs were scaffolded using Bionano Solve ( Solve3.4.1_09262019) [@url:https://bionanogenomics.com/support-page/bionano-access-software/) and SALSA (v2.3) [@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007273]. 
That scaffolds larger than 10Mb were linked and oriented based on the Onychostoma macrolepis genome [@doi:10.1111/1755-0998.13190], the most similar chromosome assembly available on NCBI, using ragtag (v1.1.1) [@doi:10.1186/s13059-019-1829-6].

RepeatModeler [VERSION] (CITE) and RepeatMasker [VERSION] (CITE) were used to create a species-specific repeat database, and mask those repeats in the genome.
All available RNA-seq libraries for *L. rohita* (ADD TABLE) were downloaded from NCBI and mapped to the masked genome using hisat2 [VERSION] (CITE).
These alignments were used in the mikado [VERSION] (CITE) and braker2 [VERSION] (CITE) pipelines.
Mikado uses the putative transcripts assembled from the RNA-seq alignments using stringtie [VERSION] (CITE), cufflinks [VERSION] (CITE), and trinity [VERSION] (CITE); along with the junction site prediction from portcullis [VERSION] (CITE), the alignments of the putative transcripts with uniport swiss-prot [VERSION] (CITE), and the ORFs from prodigal [VERSION] (CITE) to select the best representative for each locus.
Braker2 [VERSION] (CITE) uses the RNA-seq alignments and the gene prediction from GeneMark [VERSION] (CITE) to train a species-specific Augustus model [VERSION] (CITE).
Maker2 [VERSION] (CITE) predicts genes based on the new Augustus, GeneMark, and SNAP models; modifying the predictions based on the available RNA and protein evidence from the *Cyprinidae* family in the NCBI RefSeq database.
Any predicted genes with an AED above 0.47 were removed from further analysis.
The surviving genes were functionally annotated using InterProScan [VERSION] (CITE) and Blast [VERSION] (CITE) alignments against the uniprot swiss-prot database [VERSION] (CITE).
Busco [VERSION] (CITE) using the actinopterygii_odb10 database was used to verify the completeness of both the genome and annotations.

### ddRAD-Seq & SNP Discovery 

#### WORLDFISH – Fin clipping collection 

#### ZENAIDA – ddRAD-Seq method 

#### CORRINNE – SNP Discovery, population analyses, interested in using the gender, which contigs associated with sex 

### Data Availability 

The data used for the *L. rohita* genome and annotation is available at NCBI under the BioProject PRJNA650519. 
The assembled genome sequence and annotations are available at GenBank under accessions JACTAM000000000. 
The raw data is available at the SRA (Sequence Read Archive) under accessions SRR12580210 – SRR12580221. 
